Step 1: Create IAM User:
Begin by accessing your AWS account and navigating to the Identity and Access Management (IAM) service. Once in IAM, locate the ‘Users’ section. Here, take the following steps to create a new IAM User:

Click on ‘Users’ in the IAM dashboard.
Look for the ‘Create user’ button and click on it to initiate the process of setting up a new IAM User.

Provide the IAM username:

Click on next.

Choose Attach policies directly.

Permission policies: Attach the AmazonS3FullAccess.

Click on next.

Review and create:

Click on Create user.


User, day89 has been created.

Step 2: Creating IAM User Credentials:
Click on the User, which you just now created.

Click on Security Credentials, where you would see the Access keys, click on Create access key.

Choose Command Line Interface (CLI).

Click on the confirmation bar.

Tag your credentials.

Click on Create access key.


Access Key and Secret key would be generated, scroll down, download them to save it.

Step 3: Create and Lauch EC2 instance.
Now create t2.micro EC2 instance, and ssh into it.


Install the AWS CLI:

sudo apt-get update #updating the package list
sudo apt-get install awscli #installing aws cli
aws --version # verifying the installing

Configuring the AWS Account:

Run the below command to your aws cli:

aws configure
Then enter your Aws Access Key ID, AWS Secret Access Key, Default region name and Default output format.


You have successfully configured your AWS CLI.

In order to check your configuration, run the below command:

aws s3 ls
It will list all the s3 buckets created in your AWS account.


Step 4: Creating S3 Bucket through AWS CLI:
Run the below command to create the s3 bucket using aws cli:

aws s3api create-bucket --bucket your-unique-bucket-name --region your-preferred-region
Replace the following values with your desired values:

your-unique-bucket-name
your-preferred-region
Just for example lets create a bucket with name day8901152024, run the below command:

aws s3api create-bucket --bucket day8901152024 --region us-east-1

You can verify by opening your AWS account, S3 Buckets.


Step 5: Create and Upload:
Create a folder and inside folder create files:

mkdir day89
cd day89
touch 1.txt
touch 2.txt

Upload:

Run the command to upload:

aws s3 sync your-local-folder s3://your-s3-bucket-name
Replace your-local-folder with the path to the local folder you want to upload, get the path by running the pwd command.
Replace your-s3-bucket-name with the name of your S3 bucket.

In order to verify the contents has been uploaded you either visit your AWS account or run the below command:


aws s3 ls s3://your-unique-bucket-name

Step 6: Downloading the file contents from AWS S3 bucket.
Run the below command:

aws s3 cp s3://your-s3-bucket-name/your-object-key /path/to/local/directory
Replace your-s3-bucket-name with the name of your S3 bucket.
Replace your-object-key with the key of the object (file) you want to download from the bucket.
Replace /path/to/local/directory with the local directory where you want to save the downloaded file.
Create a new directory and get a path to that directory then run the below command.

reference---- Abhiraj Thakur blogs


